#### Dispose() : bestpractice against finalize

> It is used to free unmanaged resources like files, database connections etc. at any time.

> Explicitly, it is called by user code and the class which is implementing dispose method, 
  must has to implement IDisposable interface. 

> It belongs to IDisposable interface.

> It's implemented by implementing IDisposable interface Dispose() method.

> There is no performance costs associated with Dispose method. [ Dispose() will be immediately called. ]

        using System;

        public class Test : IDisposable{
            private bool disposed = false;
            public void Dispose(){
                Dispose(true);
                GC.SuppressFinalize(this);
            }

            public virtual void Dispose(bool disposing){
                if(!disposed){
                    if(disposing){
                        Console.WriteLine("do clean up");
                    }
                    disposed = true;
                }                
            }
            static void Main(){
                Test test = new Test();
                test.Dispose();
            }    

        }


#### finalize() : 

> At runtime C# destructor is automatically Converted to Finalize method

> It can be used to free unmanaged resources (when you implement it) like files, database connections etc. held by an object before that object is destroyed.

> Internally, it is called by Garbage Collector and cannot be called by user code. 

> It belongs to Object class.

> It's implemented with the help of destructor in C++ & C#.

> There is performance costs associated with Finalize method since it doesn't clean the memory immediately and called by GC automatically.

        using System;

        public class Test : IDisposable{

            public Test(){

            }

            ~Test(){
                this.Dispose();
            }

            public void Dispose(){
                Console.WriteLine("do cleanup here");
            }

            static void Main(){
                Test test = new Test();
            }    

        }
